>> Steve Kinney: Buybacks, super cool.
We play with a little
bit outside of the DOM.
Let's talk about it in React.
Right, so,
you'll notice that I had to decorate
this class component with observer.
Before when we were looking at ModX,
we had things that were observable.
[LAUGH] Right, and then we can
decorate a React class with observer.
And then any time one of
the observable objects
changes inside that class it
will trigger React to rerender.
Now, I wanna repeat something
that I said a few seconds ago,
which is that our computer
properties don't change or
re-trigger unless something
that relies on changes.
Which is why you can tend to
avoid should component update.
Because if an observable, because it's
only the properties you're looking at too.
If an observable has triggered a change,
something's changed.
The component should update.
Right, and so you can do that.
If you, again,
don't want to use the decorators or
you're using a state-less functional
component, which can't support decorators,
you can just use it like a function and
pass it in.
Like the same way you'd use react.memo.
That's why react.memo
effectively exists as well.
It's the same basic idea.
Cool, you could also do it
with a container component,
where you could do an autorun
when anything happens.
Like you don't need to.
But you can use some of those
other derivation [INAUDIBLE].
Effectively, what MobX-React.
A thing that I just want to put
on the table, it's react-redux.
That's the connector and it's mobX-react
that's the connector the other way.
So if you see me typing it wrong,
catch me.
And It gives you an ability to,
very similar,
normally in Redux React, we have one
store that we'll pass into a provider.
We can theoretically pass in multiple
stores into the provider that
are available throughout the application.
And the other thing that we're
gonna need to look at is in React,
we used the connect function and the map
state to props and the map dispatch to
props in order to kind of figure out,
to create our higher order component.
In mobx it's another decorator,
which is very elegant in my opinion.
You just annotate it
with like at inject and
then the story you want to inject into it
and then it's available in there as well.
If you're using a functional component,
you don't have the ability to do that,
to inject a store like that, so
you could use the functional version.
Right, inject store is a function waiting
for the one that you're trying to observe.
So this will then pop in
the item store as a prop, right?
And then we still have the observer there.
So we're injecting our MobX
object as a property into,
and the provider lets us not
have to do prop-drilling, right?
It allows us to just do this effectively
anywhere in our component hierarchy.
But then the component itself still
needs to observe in this case.
Cool, so let's just look at
a basic example for the counter.
We'll look at it both
without decorators and with.
>> Steve Kinney: This is
kind of one we saw before.
I have the ability to like listen for
it here, but you can see that
we're decorating the account object and
I'm passing it in, right?
If you don't need the ability to
have those cross cutting concerns
in a component hierarchy, if you
don't need the provider to like, hey,
I need to give this to
a great grandchild component.
As long as the component
itself is wrapped in observer,
it will look at the props that
come in notice which objects and
properties are observable and trigger
the rerender whenever those things change.
You don't have to do anything,
like this is a functional component.
And countdown increment is
just a property on that class.
Right, it's almost like a lot of the stuff
that we've seen we can just kind of like
make believe, it's almost like
how you wish this stuff worked.
So count.increment,
we're just calling that on
the instance of account.
And we are, the observable value
is the actual count itself, right?
So I can even fire up the console here and
I put the count on the window,
so I could do stuff with it.
So, for instance,
count there and it looks and
feels like a plain old JavaScript object,
right?
What if I say count.value equals like 500?
The React object just changes.
I'm basically mutating
a JavaScript object.
And mobx is doing a whole
bunch of sorcery.
And you can kind of see some of it,
like the observer is going ahead and
effectively
using the high order component pattern
to wrap it in a state container, right?
We've seen a bunch of
these stuff at this point.
Like [LAUGH] we've half pulled back
the curtain in the Wizard of Oz here,
all right?
And we're able to have a lot of
these in place which is I think,
really, really cool.
Yeah, you can just basically
mutate your objects and
treat it like you're not
dealing with any of this.
Which is really neat.